# supervised-machine-learning-challenge
Assignment 19

# Background
Lending services companies allow individual investors to partially fund personal loans as well as buy and sell notes backing the loans on a secondary market.

This data was used to create machine learning models to classify the risk level of given loans. Specifically, the Logistic Regression model and Random Forest Classifier model was compared.

# Data Import

The csv data "lending data.csv" is located in the Resources folder. The data was imported using Pandas and the dafataframe was displayed.

# Model Performance Prediction

Two models were considered in this assignment:

- Logistic Regression Model; and
- Random Forests Classifier.

Before fitting and scoring the models, a preliminary prediction was made which model will perform better based on the provided data. This preliminary prediction was not necessarily correct.

# Splitting the Data into Training and Testing Sets

The features DataFrame, X, was created by removing the "loan_status" column. The label set y, was created by using the "loan_status" column. The data were split into training and testing datasets by using the train_test_split function.

# Creation, Fitting and Comparison of Models

A Logistic Regression model was created, fitted to the training data that was created in the previous step. Then, the model's score was determined by using the score function and the testing data from the previous step. The same procedure was carried out for a Random Forest Classifier.

The scores of each model ware assessed and compared which model performed better.


Reference:
Loan Approval Dataset (2022). Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
